DOCKER

#Q.What is Docker? Why we need docker?
A. Docker is a containerization platform that allows developers to package, ship, and run applications in
containers. Containers are lightweight and portable, making it easier to develop, test, and deploy applications.

#Q.What are containers?
A. Containers are a type of virtualization that allows multiple applications to run on a single host operating
system, each with its own isolated environment. Containers share the host operating system, but each container
has its own file system, network stack, and process space.

#Q.Difference between container and image?
A.          Image                                container
 1. A static, executable package             1. A running instance of an image.
    containing everything needed
    to run software.
 2. Immutable (does not change               2. Mutable (can be modified).
    once created).
 3. Serves as a blueprint or                 3. Provides an isolated environment for running applications.
    template for creating containers.
 4. No isolation; just a file system         4. Isolated from other containers and the host system.
    snapshot.
 5. Built using a Dockerfile with a          5. Created from an image using the docker run command.gi
    set of instructions.


#Q.Virtualizer vs hypervisor?
A. Hypervisor is a type of virtualization that creates a separate operating system for each virtual machin
(HVM), whereas virtualizer is a type of virtualization that runs on top of a host operating
system and shares the host operating system with the guest operating system (non-HVM).

#Q.Monolythic app vs Microservice app?
A. Monolythic app is a single application that performs multiple functions, whereas microservice app is 
a collection of small, independent services that work together to perform a specific function.

#Q.What is port forwarding?
A. Port forwarding is a technique used in networking to forward incoming traffic from one port to another port.
It allows a service running on a specific port on a host to be accessed from outside the host.

#Q. 172.16.0.0/16 --> default ip used by docker.why?
A. Docker uses the 172.16.0.0/16 ip range by default because it is
a private ip range that is not routable on the internet. This
means that containers running on a host can communicate with
each other using these ip addresses, but they will not be
accessible from outside the host.

#Q.What is a Dockerfile?
A. dockerfile is a text file that contains instructions for building a docker image.
docker file is a step by step instruction to our docker image.

#Q.Difference between entrypoint and cmd in docker?
cmd is used to specify the default command to run when the container is started.
entrypoint is used to specify the default command to run when the container is started.

#Q.What is MultiStage dockerfile?
A. multi-stage docker file is a feature of docker that allows you to build a docker image in multiple stages.
Each stage is a separate docker image, and you can use the output of one stage as the input for the next.